Hello, everyone.
So I hope that you all have went to the introduction radio and the working of the application review
and gained a rough overview about the application that we are going to make today.
So my application was a music playlist library ready made in Java.
Yes, for Java, not any other complex libraries will be used while making this application, and we
are going to make this application in our favourite compiler New York studio code.
Yes.
So this is the welcome window of the INI, the compiler, which we are going to for writing the code
of the Music playlist application.
So let's start creating the code of the application in the IEEE.
So once you open the welcome page of the IDG, you'll have to click this file item on the top of the
left then.
So this is Explorer tab, and we have to click this after clicking that Explorer tab option.
We have to click on Create Java project option, so I hope that you all have installed the idea and
the latest version in order to make job application and learn how to make magic to.
These two are the most required things before starting to make this application.
So I'm hoping that you all have installed that Visual Studio code and your tickets are ending.
I am moving forward, but in case if you have missed that part or have not installed, then go through
the previous videos, then you will get the tutorial for installing both of them, the idea and the
JDK Virgin as well.
So for those who have already installed, I am moving forward and starting to get that job up from scratch.
So clicking on this created job up there, I am going to select no rental options.
We are going to make this application without any external frameworks of Java like we have maven springboard
quirks and micro profile.
But in this project, we have no use of these extensions.
We are just going to begin this with no tool options and on clicking on this no rental option.
We will open our next door file, choose our option.
So this is for choosing the location of the file.
So choosing the folders for storing the application.
So if you wish to store in an already made folder, you can do so.
Or if you want to create a new folder, then you can also do so.
So I am going to select the POC desktop for storing this application, and I'm clicking on the select
project location.
We will set a location for our project.
You must note the location for the project as later when you mistakenly close Visual Studio code.
Then if you wish to open the project, then you'll go through that part of the project like suppose
if you have stored the project in C drive, then you have to win C Drive in order to open the project.
Similarly, if you have stored index of like me, then you have to open your desktop and then open your
folder made for this project.
So we have selected desktop folder for storing this for a project like the location of Project is going
to be in the next stop.
And after selecting the desktop option now, I have to say to me for this job logic.
Like this dialog box is asking for input any Java project name?
Yes.
So we have to input that name for this Java project.
So if suppose I want to name this project as like my music library?
Perfect.
So you can name your application anyway.
What I like listening for in my application.
So I am naming this as my music library.
So after hitting enter, a folder will be planted in the desktop as I have selected that location for
my project creation.
So the folder will be created in the next up only and ostentation of that folder.
We will create files inside the folder, then maybe make some in resize, install and folders inside
this my music library folder with restoring index.html and similar folders and using create or the files
will be created will store in that location.
Only then will we know other locations where the files will be stored.
Like any, Tang will not be stored in your C drive or new areas.
This is a simple application that simplifies more complex files.
So my music library will be the name of the folder now after hitting Enter.
And we are going to turn in our new Democratic Soyuz.
We are here now, we have an empty bed for our application, which has some inbuilt folders like this
darkness, which is due to the mercy of our compiler.
Like the install folders with the mercy of our compiler and the rest are new to the Java project, which
we have selected from this.
And Clickbank project.
So these are the inbuilt folders and files like if we click inside that sample, we will see that there's
an inbuilt sign their Java, which contains a class folder, and this path will run whenever the app
led to an exception.
So you may be wondering what the exception is like.
Like the Apple two exception, what is the reason behind it?
So let me give you a quick look up on it.
So suppose you are making the application and suppose there are some errors, like some bugs in your
application.
So if the exception is seen by the compiler, it will tell that exception and will bring this thing
like it will print.
Hello all this in the by default string, which is created by the Java project itself.
We can change it according to our means.
So whenever they happen to know a runtime error, then this area will be displayed in your compiler
compilers terminal.
And this is all that.
The app has some exceptions, like the one debugging and then try to run it once again.
So checking exceptions are the most important thing while making a job budget.
So yes, we are done with this app, not level five, which we have already present before, before
starting the and we are having these folders and we have this after our fine as in mint file in this
application.
So.
Nice.
Now we are it to our project now.
We have already made a prototype.
You can see that we already made this prototype and this will guide us to how to move forward while
making this project.
So firstly, let me zoom this for better visibility of the viewers.
So, yes, we are done with creating a Java project in our.
Now, in order to me to start making the application, we have to be classified as without glasses.
That is nothing in Java.
We have to create glasses and then initialize constructors inside, initialize functions inside it and
then add the querying inside them so that we can make that function.
So let's first create a file and call it as some dark java.
And by hitting enter, we are here in a new file, which in public last song.
So this line means that we have created a class called Song and the access specifies see that this this
public.
So this class is accessible by all the files in this app, and we can call it anywhere without getting
any error.
And the exception like this without using public, supposing we are using private, then we have to
set some like go and certain methods in Java so that in order to access that class or anything like
we can add public for anybody able any class, any function.
So I am just explaining the concept behind these access specify like what is the difference between
creating a public class and a private class?
So I hope you must have understood what is the difference between a public class and a private plan.
So we went through the garden setting in our previous project.
You must go to them to understand them.
There are 10 set concepts now so that we have created this song class.
Now we will try to add some songs like song layout for the application.
Like, you can see that in the presentation section that we have a song and a brace and insert the release
we have.
The title of this song has a string and duration of this song, as we can see that in our mathematical
term, enough like we call in decimal.
I think yes.
So the duration is as the form of decimals and the title in the form of string.
So we have to create that inside this song class.
Now initializing this class song, the string called it the name of the song, and for that duration
was decimal.
So we have to initialize this as double.
I hope you know the concept of two note double in in Java.
In order to learn how to make Java project, you must be aware of the basics of Java.
The data types involved in Java and Darvel is a very popular data type in Java Soyuz.
This double is containing that duration of those song and.
We are done with both of the components inside the song class.
Now we have to call it inside to construct a public song.
Not a constructor butterfly functions public song.
So inside this song function, we have to pass to arguments like whenever this function will be called,
it will come up next to arguments one as the string.
So yes, let us name this asteroid and it will more look more involving like the song has a title and
or direction.
So the arguments are passed successfully for the song Glass for the song the song function.
We have created this song Glass Inside, which we have two objects of glass contains object, so this
title and duration are the real world entities, all in one, but equally does the object.
So they have two objects and the function has arguments.
Yes, the function consists of argument.
And what is this?
So we have created the function, and inside we are calling the title object using this key.
This given used to access the object of any class.
And similarly, for this dark duration, the dart is used to call that matters.
This is also one of the basic concepts of learning the language.
So we have gone both of the objects inside this function.
Now let me create the empty constructor.
Currently, we are not going to use this constructor.
Martin later later in this project while making this project.
Suppose if we will need this, then we are going to use this now after the creation of the class, the
function and the constructor.
Now, moving forward in this song class, we have to create to get title and generation function in
order to return the title and the duration.
We have created the title and duration inside the public class, but still to avoid any kind of exception,
we are going to get them using the get my time in Java.
So we are going to see that stuff in the next five.
So see you in the next block.